aryabhatta
bertrand russell
chomsky
dennett
fodor
goodman
hume
jaimini
kripke
lewis
mill
quine
rawls

[there's background noise] https://pixabay.com/sound-effects/search/talking/

lewis: It's so great to be here.  25 years have gone so fast.
       Goodman you've been quiet all evening, what's on your mind?

goodman: i'm wondering what this group's average salary is.

[silence]

kripke: why?

fodor: it's easy to find out.  thanks to linkedin we know where you
       work.  many employers now print the salary range.  there's also
       glassdoor.  and several other places to get the answer.  do
       this for everyone and there you have it.

chomsky: why don't you lead the discussion?  what are /you/ worth?
         then let everyone share what they're worth.  i'll go last.

lewis: i bet everyone volunteers to go last.

kripke: that's a problem with announcing it.  every later person will
        lie and even the first has incentive to lie.

fodor: we could each write it on a paper and reveal it at the same
       time.

kripke: there's still an incentive there to lie.  everyone will be
        tempted to inflate their net worth.

fodor: well, do you have a solution?  i don't hear you suggesting
       anything.

chomsky: here's one way.  i'll select an arbitrary number 𝓍 and pass
         it to $dennett.  she'll add her net worth to it and pass it
         to $fodor, who'll add his net worth to it and so on.  When
         the final number comes back to me, i'll subtract 𝓍 add my net
         worth and announce the total.  that's what this room's worth.

         Since no-one knows the interim values anonymity is preserved.

         And since it's anonymous, there's no incentive to lie.

kripke: yeah, but if you collude with $fodor, you can find out
        $dennett's networth.  then you might separately collude
        with each neighbor and so on.

chomsky: do you want to start the circle?

fodor: $kripke, you're only finding problems.  i still don't see you
       volunteering a solution.

chomsky: okay, here's another way.

        it goes as follows.  i take my salary, let's suppose it's
        100K.  i divide it into twelve parts of different sizes such
        that the sum of those parts will add up to 120K.  one random
        division of 100K into 12 parts might be [8806, 16165, 160,
        11707, 4709, 17212, 11045, 2521, 9799, 13953, 17064, 6858].
        there are other random distributions, that's the beauty of
        random.

        to each of you here, i give one of the parts.  the twelfth i
        keep for myself.

        everyone in the room does the same thing.  you take your
        salary, divide it into twelve parts, and share it with each of
        us.

        i'll have a portion from each of you.  i'll announce my total.
        each of you does the same.  we sum up all total of totals,
        we'll know what this room's total salary is.  Divide by 12,
        the number of people in the room, and we have the average
        salary.

[everyone looks at $kripke]

kripke: why would i be honest?

chomsky: because it's anonymous and you're curious.

fodor: we could also use the same technique to compute a histogram of
        our salaries.  it would be tedious but if we're motivated we
        can find out.

        we decide a salary range, say, 180K to 200K.  if your salary
        falls in that range, share random numbers with everyone that
        sum up to 1.  if it is above or below the range, share random
        numbers that sum up to 0.  when we add up the announced
        totals, the number we get tells us how many of us have
        salaries in that range, without knowing which of us have those
        ranges.  continuing we can find the full histogram of our
        salaries, including the upper and lower bounds.

kripke: how do i split my salary into random numbers that add up to my
        salary?
